elasticsearch-test, a framework that makes "ElasticSearch":http://www.elasticsearch.org/ unit testing a breeze.

Here you will find:
* a <b>simple Java API</b> that can be used to easily set up ElasticSearch in your unit tests
* some <b>Java annotations</b> that simplifies JUnit testing with ElasticSearch


h3. Versions

|_. elasticsearch-test	|_. ElasticSearch|
|   master (0.90.7-SNAPSHOT)     |     0.90.6     |
|   0.90.6		|     0.90.6	 |
|   0.90.5		|     0.90.5	 |
|   0.0.10              |     0.90.3     |
|   0.0.9		        |     0.90.1     |
|   0.0.8		        |     0.90.0.Beta1   |
|   0.0.7               |     0.20.1     |
|   0.0.6     		    |     0.20.0     |
|   0.0.5		        |     0.19.11    |
|   0.0.4               |     0.19.8     |
|   0.0.3               |     0.19.7     |
|   0.0.2               |     0.19.4     |
|   0.0.1		        |     0.19.4     |

h3. Maven dependency

Add a new dependency in your Maven POM file:

bc. <dependency>
  <groupId>com.github.tlrx</groupId>
  <artifactId>elasticsearch-test</artifactId>
  <version>0.0.8</version>
</dependency>


h2. Using the Java API

The @EsSetup@ class helps to start and stop a local ElasticSearch node. Then, the @EsSetup.execute()@ method 
can be used to create indices (with mappings, settings and templates support) and import test data.

The usage of @EsSetup@ is pretty self explanatory:
<pre><code>
import static com.github.tlrx.elasticsearch.test.EsSetup.*;

public class MyTest {
        EsSetup esSetup;
	@Before public void setUp() throws Exception {
                // Instantiates a local node & client
                esSetup = new EsSetup();
                // Clean all, and creates some indices
                esSetup.execute(
                        deleteAll(),
                        createIndex("my_index_1"),
                        createIndex("my_index_2")
                                .withSettings(fromClassPath("path/to/settings.json"))
                                .withMapping("type1", fromClassPath("path/to/mapping/of/type1.json"))
                                .withData(fromClassPath("path/to/bulk.json")),
                        createTemplate("template-1")
                                .withSource(fromClassPath("path/to/template1.json")),
                );
        }
        @Test public void testMethod() {
                // check if the index exists
                assertTrue(esSetup.exists("my_index_2"));
		// Index a new document
		esSetup.execute(index("my_index_2", "type1", "1").withSource("{ \"field1\" : \"value1\" }"));
                // Count the number of documents
                Long nb = esSetup.countAll();
		// Delete a document
		esSetup.execute(delete("my_index_2", "type1", "1"));
                // Clean all indices
                esSetup.execute(deleteAll());
        }
        @After public void tearDown() throws Exception {
                // This will stop and clean the local node
                esSetup.terminate();
        }	
}</code></pre>
More usages can be found in "BasicTest.java":https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-test/blob/master/src/test/java/com/github/tlrx/elasticsearch/test/BasicTest.java



h2. Using with JUnit

Define the JUnit @Runner@ to use in your test classes with the annotation @@RunWith(ElasticsearchRunner.class)@ :

<pre>
package com.github.tlrx.elasticsearch.samples.core;

@RunWith(ElasticsearchRunner.class)
public class VersionTest {
	...
}
</pre>


h3. Annotations

The library provides the following annotations:

|_. Annotation			|_. 		 						|
|   @ElasticsearchNode      	|     Instantiate an elasticsearch Node     			|
|   @ElasticsearchClient      	|     Instantiate an elasticsearch Client     			|
|   @ElasticsearchAdminClient  	|     Instantiate an elasticsearch AdminClient 			|
|   @ElasticsearchTransportClient   |     Instantiate an elasticsearch TransportClient                  |
|   @ElasticsearchIndexes  	|     Used to create multiple index	 			|
|   @ElasticsearchIndex      	|     Creates an index			     			|
|   @ElasticsearchMapping      	|     Defines a mapping for an index and a document type     	|
|   @ElasticsearchMappingField  |     Defines field properties in a mapping     		|
|   @ElasticsearchSetting  	|     Defines settings (at node or index level) 		|
|   @ElasticsearchBulkRequest  	|     Used to import data			  		|
|   @ElasticsearchMappingMultiField  	|     Used to define a multi_field in the mapping properties			  		|
|   @ElasticsearchAnalysis  	|     Used to define analysis settings of an ElasticsearchIndex			  		|
|   @ElasticsearchAnalyzer  	|     Used to define an analyzer	 	  		|
|   @ElasticsearchFilter  	|     Used to define an analysis filter 	  		|

h3. @ElasticsearchNode

Used to instantiate an elasticsearch @Node@ in a unit test class.

Simple node has default name "elasticsearch-test-node" and is part of default cluster name "elasticsearch-test-cluster". Node is local and can hold data.

<pre>package com.github.tlrx.elasticsearch.samples.core;

@RunWith(ElasticsearchRunner.class)
public class VersionTest {

        @ElasticsearchNode
	Node node;
	
        @Test
	public void test(){
                // Use of node
	}
}</pre>

Example with custom cluster and node names, and local set to true and data set to false:

bc. @ElasticsearchNode(name = "node3", clusterName = "fourth-cluster-name", local = true, data = false)
Node node3;

Example with custom settings:

<pre>@ElasticsearchNode(name = "node0", settings = {
	@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "http.enabled", value = "false"),
	@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "node.zone", value = "zone_one") })
Node node;
</pre>

h3. @ElasticsearchClient

Used to instantiate an elasticsearch @Client@ from a @Node@. The @nodeName@ parameter of the annotation is used to retrieve the node from which the client will be instantiated. If no nodeName is defined, a default node will be instantiated.

Example with default node:

bc. @ElasticsearchClient
Client client;

Example with a predefined node:

<pre>@ElasticsearchNode(name = "node1")
Node node1;

@ElasticsearchClient(nodeName = "node1")
Client client1;</pre>

h3. @ElasticsearchAdminClient

Same as @ElasticsearchClient@ but instantiates an @AdminClient@.

<pre>@ElasticsearchAdminClient
AdminClient adminClient0;

@ElasticsearchNode(name = "node1")
Node node1;

@ElasticsearchAdminClient(nodeName = "node1")
AdminClient adminClient1;</pre>

h3. @ElasticsearchTransportClient

Used to instantiate an elasticsearch @TransportClient@. By default the TransportClient will try to join localhost:9200.

Connect to a remote node with a TransportClient:

<pre>@ElasticsearchTransportClient(local = false, clusterName = "external",
					hostnames = {"host1", "host2"},
					ports= {9300, 9300})
	Client client;</pre>


h3. @ElasticsearchIndex, @ElasticsearchIndexes

Used to creates one or many index before a test method. A node must be instantiated before using this annotation.

This example will create an index with default name @test@:

<pre>@ElasticsearchAdminClient
AdminClient adminClient;

@Test
@ElasticsearchIndex
public void test(){...}</pre>

This example will create an index "people":

<pre>@Test
@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "people")
public void test(){
        ...
}</pre>

This example will create 2 indexs with settings:

<pre>@Test
@ElasticsearchIndexes(indexes = {
			@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "library", 
					forceCreate = true,
					settings = {
						@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "number_of_shards", value = "2"),
						@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "number_of_replicas", value = "1") }),
				@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "people") })
public void test(){
        ...
}</pre>

This example will create an index with settings:

<pre>@Test
@Test
@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "documents", settingsFile = "path/to/settings.json")
public void test() {
        ...
}</pre>


h3. Load data from JSON file with @ElasticsearchBulkRequest

<pre>@Test
@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "documents", forceCreate = true)
@ElasticsearchBulkRequest(dataFile = "com/tlrx/elasticsearch/test/annotations/documents/bulk1.json")
public void test() {
   // Data from JSON file are indexed
}</pre>

h3. @ElasticsearchMapping, @ElasticsearchMappingField and @ElasticsearchSetting

Used to define the mappings and settings of an index

This example will create 2 indexs, "people" and "library", with a mapping for document type "book":
<pre>@ElasticsearchNode
Node node;

@Test
@ElasticsearchIndexes(indexes = {
	@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "people", settings = {
		@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "number_of_shards", value = "2"),
		@ElasticsearchSetting(name = "number_of_replicas", value = "1")
	}),
	@ElasticsearchIndex(indexName = "library",
		mappings = {
			@ElasticsearchMapping(typeName = "book",
				properties = {
					@ElasticsearchMappingField(name = "title", store = Store.Yes, type = Types.String),
					@ElasticsearchMappingField(name = "author", store = Store.Yes, type = Types.String)
			})
		})
})
public void test(){
	...
}</pre>

You can also look at "the unit tests for some inspiration":https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-test/tree/master/src/test/java/com/github/tlrx/elasticsearch

